# Formatting Output

**1.** From the following table, write a SQL query to select all the salespeople. Return salesman_id, name, city, commission with the percent sign (%).
~~~~sql
SELECT salesman_id,name,city, commission*100 AS "Comission (%)"
FROM salesman
~~~~
**2.** From the following table, write a SQL query to find the number of orders booked for each day. Return the result in a format like "For 2001-10-10 there are 15 orders".".
~~~~sql
SELECT 'For', ord_date,'there are', 
COUNT(ord_no),'orders.' 
FROM orders 
GROUP BY ord_date
~~~~
**3.** From the following table, write a SQL query to find all the orders. Sort the result-set in ascending order by ord_no. Return all fields
~~~~sql
SELECT *
FROM orders
ORDER BY ord_no ASC
~~~~
**4.** From the following table, write a SQL query to find all the orders. Sort the result-set in descending order by ord_date. Return all fields.
~~~~sql
SELECT *
FROM orders
ORDER BY ord_date DESC
~~~~
**5.** From the following table, write a SQL query to find all the orders. Sort the result-set in descending order by ord_date and purch_amt. Return all fields.
~~~~sql
SELECT *
FROM orders
ORDER BY ord_date DESC, purch_amt DESC
~~~~
**6.** From the following table, write a SQL query to find all the customers. Sort the result-set by customer_id. Return cust_name, city, grade.
~~~~sql
SELECT cust_name, city, grade
FROM customer
ORDER BY customer_id 
~~~~
**7.** From the following table, write a SQL query that calculates the maximum purchase amount generated by each salesperson for each order date. Sort the result-set by salesperson id and order date in ascending order. Return salesperson id, order date and maximum purchase amount.
~~~~sql
SELECT salesman_id, ord_date, MAX(purch_amt)
FROM orders
GROUP BY salesman_id, ord_date
ORDER BY salesman_id ASC, ord_date ASC
~~~~
**8.** From the following table, write a SQL query to find all the customers. Sort the result-set in descending order on 3rd field. Return customer name, city and grade.
~~~~sql
SELECT cust_name, city, grade
FROM customer
ORDER BY grade DESC
~~~~
**9.** From the following table, write a SQL query that counts the unique orders and the highest purchase amount for each customer. Sort the result-set in descending order on 2nd field. Return customer ID, number of distinct orders and highest purchase amount by each customer.
~~~~sql
SELECT customer_id, COUNT(DISTINCT ord_no), MAX(purch_amt) 
FROM orders
GROUP BY customer_id
ORDER BY COUNT(DISTINCT ord_no) DESC
~~~~
**10.** From the following table, write a SQL query to calculate the summation of purchase amount, total commission (15% for all salespeople) by each order date. Sort the result-set on order date. Return order date, summation of purchase amount and commission.
~~~~sql
SELECT ord_date,  SUM(purch_amt),  SUM(purch_amt)*.15  
FROM orders 
GROUP  BY ord_date 
ORDER  BY ord_date;
~~~~
